---
layout: page
title: "Backing up"
subtitle: "Best practices for back up with your Krypton SSH or PGP key pair."
category: start
order: 6
---

# Backing up Krypton, Best Practices
You use Krypton for all of your personal SSH key pair needs, but without a doubt you're worried about: what happens if I lose my phone or if my phone breaks? In this case your Krypton key will be lost, and you need a way to recover.

Some solutions you might consider:
- Can I print out my private key?
- Can I back it up to some hard-drive, 
- Can I duplicate it to another Krypton phone?

Unfortunately, the answer to these is **no**.

While these solutions might be convenient, they would also significantly hurt the security of Krypton. It is a big risk to allow the private key to leave the device and in some cases not even possible due to a hardware-secured private key (iOS and Android Secure Enclaves or Crypto-Coprocessors). With Krypton, the private key *never* leaves your phone.

## Our solution
Create and store a backup Krypton device, and use [kr transfer]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2017-11-21-transfer_authority %}) to provision the backup device.

If you have an old iPhone/Android phone or iPad/Tablet, it might make a perfect Krypton backup device that you can store at home (locked with a strong pass-code) and perhaps in a safe if you want to be even more cautious.

To create a backup device, simply use the transfer utility in `kr`:

```bash
$ kr transfer # use -d for a dry-run
```

> Note: in the case of provisioning a backup device, make sure to pair with your current, main Krypton device when it asks for the "**old** Krypton device" and with your backup Krypton device when it asks to pair with the "**new** Krypton device".
