---
layout: page
title: "Pair your computer"
category: start
order: 2
---

# Pair Kryptonite with `kr`

After you've [installed both the Kryptonite app and the `kr` command line utility]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2017-08-20-installation %}), it's time to pair the Kryptonite phone app with your computer (`kr`).

```bash
$ kr pair
```
A QR code will be printed to the terminal screen, scan this to pair. 

1. Open the Kryptonite app, go to the Pair tab, and point your phone's camera at the screen.
2. Confirm on your phone that you really want to pair with this computer.
3. Once the pairing is complete, the phone will show a success message and `kr` will print out your Kryptonite SSH public key to the terminal.

> **Note**: if the QR code doesn't scan it's probably too big, try lowering the font size of your terminal output or make the terminal window larger.

## Pairing with more than one computer
One of the major benefits of Kryptonite is that you no longer have to (nor able to) share your private key amongst all your computers (laptop, desktop, home, work, etc...). With Kryptonite you can simply pair with all of your computers. Make sure to download and install `kr` and run `kr pair` on each of your other computers.

## Removing a paired computer
Sometimes you need to de-authorize a computer so it can no longer request SSH login requests. To remove a paried computer:

1. go to your Kryptonite phone app, 
2. then the Devices tab, 
3. finally select the paired computer you'd like to remove and tap `Unpair`.

> **Security**: to learn more about the architecture of pairing and it's security benefits, read the [Kryponite Security Architecture]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2017-08-21-security-architecture %}).